---
layout: post
title: Integrating SSRS, Web-API and AngularJS: Part One
excerpt: "What if I separated the report generated by SSRS form the report viewer component?"
modified: 2015-03-25
tags: [SSRS, Web-API, AngularJS, SQL Server Reporting Services ]
comments: false
---

# Integrating SSRS, Web-API and AngularJS: Part One - The first step towards integration 

When I attempted to use SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) in a recent project. I discovered some serious pain points when attempting to use SSRS within an Web-API driven AngularJS SPA :

* It was difficult to integrate the report Viewer component with angular
* The Report viewer felt clunky and out of place
* The dependence on the Report Viewer limited the portability of WebAPI
* The version of SSRS I worked with was not mobile device friendly


## How Do You Solve a Problem Like integrating SSRS, Web-API and AngularJS?

Upon sitting down and looking at the problem, I boiled it all down to a simple question: 

>What if I separated the report generated by SSRS form the report viewer component?

If the API could return the report in a neutral file format for example pdf, I would be able to bypass most of the current pain I was feeling using SSRS.

In the following series of articles, I will outline how to make SQL Server Reporting Services play nicely with WebAPI and AngularJS.

## Step One : Convert the RDL To  RDLC
By converting the report from an RDL to an RDLC, we will perform the processing for the report within the Web-API. I found during my exploration that this is the Happy path for integrating SSRS and Web-API.

1.	Create a copy of the report RDL
2.	Rename the report file extension from RDL to RLDC
3.	Open in notepad++

 The following steps are not necessary but will reduce the amount of tedious work required.

4.	Install the add-on xpatherizernpp for notpad https://code.google.com/p/xpatherizernpp/
5.	Open  Xpath window and perform a search for *//DataSets*

Feel free to tweet me a comments, feedback or questions to @ChrisBriggsy

